SOURCE: 
http://www.cleanenergyfuture.gov.au/clean-energy-future/securing-a-clean-energy-future/

CITATION:
Department of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency 2011,
Securing a clean energy future: The Australian Government's Climate Change Plan,
Department of Climate Change and Energy Efficiency, Canberra



MPCCC - Multi-party Climate Change Commission
ETS - emissions trading scheme

@pvii - Key Messages
around 500 biggest polluters will pay
one permit per tonne of carbon pollution
fixed price until ETS in 2015

tax cuts, plus increases in pensions, allowances and benefits.
over 50% of revenue spent on households
household transport fuel not subject to carbon price

Industry Assistance
supporting: 
    emissions-intensive, trade-exposed industries
    manufacturing,
    food processing
    metal forgers
    foundries
    electricity generators
    small business
    separate assistance for coal & steel (not agreed to by MPCCC)

CEFC - Clean Energy Finance Corporation
$10 billion to invest in renewables, low carbon tech and energy efficiency

reduction of up to 2000 megawatts of high polluting energy generation by 2020


@pviii - Key Messages
For Farmers:
    CFI - Carbon Funding Initiative
    CFF - Carbon Farming Futures
    Biodiversity Fund
    
    Agriculture not subject to carbon price

Energy Efficiency
    LCC - Low Carbon Communities
        will help local councils & communities improve energy efficiency
    LIEEP - Low Income Energy Efficiency Program
    govt will expedite a national energy savings institute.

@pix - Executive Summary
QUOTE:
"This plan has been devised in response to clear scientific advice that
the world is warming, that carbon pollution from human activity creates
significant risks and that we can avoid the worst potential impacts by
reducing carbon pollution."

4 elements:
    carbon price
    renewable energy
    energy efficiency
    action on the land

QUOTE:
"Australia's carbon pollution is still growing by almost 2 per cent each year."

@page x
QUOTE:
"The evidence that the world is getting warmer is unequivocal. In
Australia and across the globe, 2001 to 2010 was the warmest decade
on record. In Australia, each decade since the 1940s has been warmer
than the last."

QUOTE:
"Australia is a hot and dry continent. This means that amongst the
world’s developed countries, Australia faces acute risks. Studies
indicate that warming of more than 2 degrees Celsius will overwhelm
the capacity of many of our natural ecosystems to adapt. With that
level of warming, for instance, the survival of the Great Barrier Reef will
be in jeopardy as higher ocean temperatures and acidity levels cause
major changes to coral reefs."

@page xi

electricity is Australia's largest source of carbon pollution,
    just over 1/3 of total

QUOTE:
"deforestation, reforestation, aforestation -- contribute 3 per cent to 
    Australia's total carbon pollution"

'fugitive emissions'
    mainly methane from coal/gas mines
    also landfills & pollution from industrial processes

emissions forecast to be 22% above 2000 levels in 2020


QUOTE:
" The Government has committed to reduce carbon pollution by 5 per
cent from 2000 levels by 2020 irrespective of what other countries do,
and by up to 15 or 25 per cent depending on the scale of global action.
These targets will require cutting expected pollution by at least 23 per
cent in 2020.
The Government also commits to a new 2050 target to reduce
emissions by 80 per cent compared with 2000 levels, in line with
targets announced by the United Kingdom and Germany."


@page xii
Treasury modelling estimates (under core policy scenario):
    * large-scale renewable (excluding hydro), project to be 18 times bigger 
        current size by 2050.
    * total renewable (including hydro) compromise around 40 per cent of 
        power generation in 2050.
    * gas-fired electricity increase by over 200% by 2050.

@page xiii
2012-5
    * fixed price of $23/tonne increasing 2.5% per annum in real terms
July 1 2015 - transition to flexible price under ETS

Transport
    * not covered by carbon price mechanism, but an equivalent will be charged
        to some fuels by changes to excise or fuel tax credits.
    * carbon price applied to: domestic aviation, domestic shipping, rail 
        transport, non-transport use of fuels.
    * exempt: household fuel, light vehicle business, off-road uses.
    * introduce price July 1 2014 for heavy on-road liquid fuel use
        (not all MPCCC agreed to this)

linking to international permits, but a company can only use a max of 50%
    permits that are international

price ceiling & floor:
    * ceiling: $20 above expected international price, increasing 5% in real
        terms
    * floor: $15 rising 4% in real terms

CFI - Carbon Farming Iniative
    - 5% max limit in fixed-price period
    - Kyoto-compliant credits to be created

3 bodies:
    CCA - Climate Change Authority
       advise on pollution targets/caps
    CER - Clean Energy Regulator
        administer the carbon pricing mechanism
    PC - Productivity Commission
        review industry assistance, fuel tax arrangements, international 
        carbon reduction activities.

@page ix - Households
$9.90 weekly cost to households
$10.10 average assistance to be received
CPI (consumer price index) expected to rise 0.7 in 2012-13.
2/3 households to be fully compensated
9/10 to receive some assistance
raise tax-free threshold from $6k to $18,200 (1 million won't need tax-return)
    2nd phase in 2015 (another 100K won't need tax-return) raise to $19,400

@page xv
pensions/allowances/benefits to increase

Supporting Jobs
40% revenue to supporting businesses and jobs
JCP - Job & Competitiveness Program
    emissions-intensive trade-exposed activities gets assistance
    (mainly manufacturing)
also support for:
    food processing
    metal forging
    foundry industries

@page xvi - Encouraging Clean Energy
$10 billion CEFC
ARENA - Australian Renewable Energy Agency
    * administer $3.2 billion for:
        R&D, demonstration & commercialisation of renewable energy


Supporting Energy Markets
ESF - Energy Security Fund (ch7)
    to ensure smooth transition and energy security
strongly affected generators to get assistance in return for adopting clean
    energy investment plans showing how they will reduce their pollution

@page xvii
Energy Efficiency
LCC - Low Carbon Communities
    promotoe energy efficiency at local level & low-income households

LAND
CFI - to create Kyoto-compliant credits via farming practices that reduce 
    carbon
Biodiversity Fund
CFF - Carbon Farming Futures
    support R&D, measurement approaches& action on the ground to reduce
        emissions or store carbon


CHAPTER 01 - The Need for Action
p6
QUOTE:
"Governments around the world have agreed to limit carbon pollution so that
average global temperature rise can be held below 2 degrees Celsius above
pre-industrial levels, which is broadly consistent with global concentrations
of 450 parts per million."

CHAPTER 02 - Plan for Action
p11
565 million tonnes 2009 (last year with figures)
1.5% of global
top 20 polluting countries
QUOTE:
"Australia’s carbon pollution represents 1.5 per cent of global emissions
of greenhouse gases. That makes us one of the top 20 polluting
countries in the world. Our annual carbon pollution is roughly the same
as that of countries like Spain, France, Italy, South Korea and the
United Kingdom. All of those countries have populations two to three
times larger than Australia. In fact, Australia produces more carbon
pollution per head of population than any developed country in the
world, more even than the world’s biggest economy, the United States."

p12-13
Carbon breakdown:
    * 37% electricity generation
    * 15% direct fuel combustion
    * 15% agriculture
    * 15% transport
    * 7% fugitive emissions
    * 5% industrial processes
    * 3% waste
    * 3% deforestation and forestry
    Pie Chart
    SOURCE: 2009 emissions from the National Greenhouse Gas Inventory 2011,
            DCCEE analysis.

QUOTE:
"our carbon pollution is projected to rise to 679 million tonnes in 2020 in
the absence of further action. That represents an increase of 22 per cent over
the two decades from 2000 to 2020."
QUOTE:
"The scientific advice is that stabilising concentrations of carbon pollution
in the atmosphere at 450 parts per million provides a reasonable chance of
avoiding the most dangerous impacts of climate change by limiting global
temperature rises to less than 2 degrees Celsius."



p14
159Mt CO2eq or 23% cut

p15
2.2.2
ipcc say 450ppm means 2050 of 80-95% below 1990
QUOTE:
"As part of its plan to secure a clean energy future, the Government has adopted a new
long-term target: to reduce carbon pollution by 80 per cent compared with 2000 levels
by 2050.
This is consistent with the findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s
Fourth Assessment Report that, to stabilise concentrations of carbon pollution at 450 parts
per million, 2050 targets for developed countries should be between 80 to 95 per cent below
1990 emissions. Treasury modelling shows this target can be achieved with modest cost to
our economy.
The Australian Government’s long-term target is also consistent with targets announced by
other developed countries, including the United Kingdom and Germany."

@p16
QUOTE:
"Thirty-one European countries — including the
United Kingdom, Germany and France — have a price on carbon pollution through
emissions trading schemes. New Zealand started emissions trading in 2008. Carbon taxes
are also in place in the United Kingdom, India, Switzerland, Denmark, Finland, Norway,
Sweden, the Netherlands, Costa Rica and Ireland."

according to productivity commision report
QUOTE:
"In electricity generation, Australia’s current policies are reducing carbon
pollution by around 3 to 5 per cent below what would have happened if no
action had been taken. This is comparable to the impact of current policies in
China and the United States."

"However, Australia is not a global leader. The Commission’s estimates show
Australia is well behind the United Kingdom and Germany, where current policies
are reducing pollution by electricity generators by around 8 to 15 per cent and 18 to
20 per cent respectively."

"The Productivity Commission study strongly supports market-based mechanisms for
cutting pollution. Using the market to put a price on pollution was found to be a
much cheaper policy approach than government regulation or subsidies. Emissions
trading schemes in the European Union and New Zealand had the lowest costs for
every tonne of carbon pollution reduced of the over 1000 policies studied.
"


CHAPTER 03 - Putting a price on pollution
p21
50 largest polluters responsible for 75% of pollution covered by carbon price

p22

p24
!!! graph - domestic modest reduction, most abatement from overseas.
    from Treasury modelling.
treasury modelling - pollution growth slows

p25
in flexible period, businesses will also have access to international carbon
markets to buy permits which represent credible reductions in carbon pollution
internationally

surrender permits to govt


p26
$23 2012 July 1
increase 2.5% inflation + 2.5% extra
$24.15 2013-14
$25.50 2014-15
1 July flexible 2015
one permit per tonne
    some sold by govt by auction
    some allocated at no charge to support jobs, competitiveness, and help
        strongly effected industries to transition to a clean energy future.
setting cap
    2015-19 set may 2014
    2020 set June 2016
    2021 set June 2017

p27
CCA - Climate Change Authority - statutory body
    advise govt on targets.
    1st review by Feb 2014
    review floor & ceiling in 2017
safety valves for 3yrs, reviewed in 2017 by CCAuthority
    ceiling of $20 higher than international price at July 1 2015
    floor of $15 for 2015-16
coverage:
    stationary energy,
    waste,
    rail,
    domestic aviation & shipping,
    industrial processes
    & fugitive emissions
from July 2014, include heavy on-road vehicles (MPCCCommittee)
    (probably independents?)
QUOTE:
"Over half of Australia’s emissions will be directly covered by the carbon
pricing mechanism and around two-thirds will be covered by a carbon price
applied through various means."

p28
farming and land use not included
covers 4/6 kyoto GHG
    co2, methane, nitrous oxide, perfluorocarbon emissions from aluminium
    other 2 will face equivalent price applied by existing legislation
applied to large suppliers of natural gas
or facilities with over 25K tonnes co2-eq/yr (excluding transport fuels)
lower threshold for some landfill facilities
natural gas retailers liable for use by customers.

p29
Transport
household and light-commercial vehicles not include fuel
exclude agriculture/forestry/fishing off-road fuel
carbon price applies to fuel in domestic aviation, marine and rail transport

transport fuels not in mechanism but:
    fuel tax credits or changes in excise to have same price as carbon price

p30
household cuts - 4 ways
    - taken into account when setting caps, treated as additional when 
        accounting for targets post-2012
    - can buy & voluntarily cancel permits
    - tax-deductible Pledge Fund established to buy and cancel permits
    - accredit GreenPower purchases to be treated as voluntary action

CFI - carbon farming initiative
    can only be 5% of anyones permits
QUOTE:
"The Carbon Farming Initiative will reward farmers and land managers who
take steps to reduce pollution. It will do this by creating credits for each tonne of carbon
pollution that farmers and land managers reduce or store on the land. These credits can then
be sold to businesses that want to offset their carbon pollution. Credits that are
Kyoto-compliant can be used to meet liabilities under the carbon pricing mechanism. In the
fixed price period, liable parties will be able to meet no more than 5 per cent of their
obligations using Carbon Farming Initiative credits"

International linking
starts in flexible-price period.
    
    p31
    until 2020, 50% permits max overseas permits
farmers can sell CFI credits overseas.

QUOTE:
"The price of international permits will act as an additional safety valve on carbon prices in
Australia. If reducing carbon pollution in Australia is more expensive than reducing carbon
pollution in another country, Australian firms will be able to purchase an international permit.
With international linking, the carbon price in Australia will be set by international supply and
demand for permits."

CER - Clean Energy Regulator
    * administer carbon pricing mechanism & CFI
    * Renewable Energy Target
    * National Greenhouse & Energy Reporting System


QUOTE:
"The Climate Change Authority will review pollution caps, the future trajectory of Australia’s
pollution levels and the performance of the carbon price and will track Australia’s progress
towards meeting its targets for reducing carbon pollution.
QUOTE:
"The Productivity Commission will review industry assistance under the Jobs and
Competitiveness Program and the Coal Sector Jobs Package."

    
CHAPTER 04 - Helping households

p37 
2012-13
$18,200 tax-free threshold

2015-16 threshold raised to $19,400
marginal tax rates get adjusted upwards to reflect this change.

p39
QUOTE:
"For single pensioners, the cost of living impact for a pensioner with no other income is
expected to be $204 in 2012-13. In 2012-13, this person will receive an increase in
their pension of $338, more than offsetting their expected average cost of living
increase."
QUOTE:
"The average cost of living impact for a family with two teenage school children, where
each parent earns $50,000, is expected to be $653 in 2012-13. Through a combination
of reductions in personal income tax and increases in the Government payments such
as the Family Tax Benefit, the family will receive household assistance of $679."
QUOTE:
"Using the revenue from carbon pricing to help families in this way does not cancel out
incentives to reduce pollution. Households will still face changes in relative prices, with goods
made with fewer emissions becoming relatively cheaper. By choosing less carbon emission
intensive goods and services, and taking simple actions to improve energy efficiency in their
daily lives, households can save money. These savings will come on top of the increased tax
cuts and payments that households will continue to receive."

p40
Household Assistance
* pensioners and self-funded retirees will get up to $338 extra per year if they are single,
    and $510 per year for couples, combined
* families receiving Family Tax Benefit Part A will get up to an extra $110 per child
* single income families with children will get up to $69 extra in Family Tax Benefit Part B
    plus up to $300 in an additional supplement
* allowance recipients will get up to $218 per year for singles, and $390 per year for
    couples, combined
* on top of this, all taxpayers with annual income of under $80,000 will get a tax cut, with
    most receiving at least $300 per year.


p42
People on Family Tax Benefits & pensioners,  Commonwealth Seniors Health Care Card
    * will get an up front payment to cover 2012-13. Clean Energy Advance in 
            June 2012
    * from July 13, will receive ongoing supplement payment



p44
QUOTE:
"The Government is also introducing the Essential Medical Equipment Payment of
$140 per year. This payment will be available to provide extra help for the eligible
110,000 people in Australia who face additional and unavoidable electricity costs owing to
medical conditions or disabilities and hold a relevant concession card. People in this situation
might use equipment such as a home dialysis machine, or they may have thermoregulatory
dysfunctions which mean that they require additional heating or cooling to regulate their body
temperature."

p45
QUOTE:
"The overall increase in prices is expected to be quite modest: the average increase in
expenditure across all households is expected to be around $9.90 a week in 2012-13. This
includes an average estimated increase in household electricity expenditure of around
$3.30 per week, and gas of $1.50 per week. On average, food will go up by less than
$1 per week for households."

p46
QUOTE:
"After the carbon price is introduced, households can continue to consume the same things,
but the carbon price means that they will have a financial incentive to consider alternatives.
This is because the change in the prices of goods and services which are produced with
relatively lower levels of carbon pollution will be less than the change in the prices of
high-pollution goods and services. These price differences mean consumers will take carbon
pollution into account when they make everyday decisions about what they buy. A product
made in a more energy-efficient factory will cost less than the same product from a less
energy-efficient factory. Households choosing the first product will be rewarding cleaner
production. In this way households will be supporting Australia’s move to a clean energy
future — and household assistance will not blunt these price signals."




CHAPTER 05 - Supporting Jobs

p52
40% of revenue to help business & support jobs
JCP - Jobs & Competitiveness Program
    $9.2 bill, manufacturing & heavy industry are energy intensive & trade
        exposed
CTP - Clean Technology Program
    $1.2 bill. includes
        $200 mill assist food manufacturers, metal forging & foundry
        $200 mill support investment in clean technology innovation
2 initiatives to support jobs for steel & coal mining (MPCCC didn't agree)

p54
JCP - protect from carbon leakage (industry going to country with out carbon
        price)
approx 40-50 entities to be eligible for JCP
    e.g. aluminium, steel, cement production, petrol refinery, pulp & paper
    allocated free of charge permits
    2 tiers - 94.5% (for most trade-exposed energy-intensive) & 66%
    reducing by 1.3%/yr
    50% free permits for LNG
    free allocation based on historic emissions - encourages savings

    5yr guarantee, 3yr warning of change
    Productivity Commission to review 2014-15 & regularly following that

p57
$1.2 billion CTP
    - $800 mill CTIP (Clean Technology Investment Program)
        grants for  investment in energy-efficient equipment or low pollution
        technologies, $1 co-investment for every $3 that business contributes
        eligible are Manufacturing business that:
            * are part of 500 to pay carbon price
            * have facilities using more than 300 MWhr/yr electricity
            * have facilities using five terajoules gas/yr

    - Clean Technology - Food & Foundries Investment Program
        - for food processing, metal forging, and foundry industries
        $1 co-investment for every $3 that business contributes
        $150 million over 6yrs for food processors
        $50 million over 6ys for metal forging & foundries

    - CTIP - Clean Technology Innovation Program
        $200 million over 5yrs supporting R&D in:
            * renewable energy
            * low-pollution technology
            * energy efficiency
        $1 co-investment for every $1 that business contributes
    - $32 million Clean Energy Skills
        Funding of around $32 million will help educational institutions and industry develop the
        materials and expertise needed to promote clean energy skills. Tradespersons and
        professionals will develop the skills needed to deliver energy efficiency services, clean
        energy projects and low pollution products to Australian households, communities and
        businesses.

p59
QUOTE:
"The Government will maintain this approach under the clean
energy plan, setting aside $200 million in funding for regions in the event that they are
affected by the introduction of a carbon price.
The Department of Regional Australia, Regional Development and Local Government will
monitor the socio-economic impacts of the carbon price on regions to identify areas where
impacts are acute and structural adjustment assistance may be required. Funding will
support regional communities on a case-by-case basis. Examples of programs that may be
supported through this program include support for displaced workers and their families,
support for affected small businesses, community development programs and economic
diversification programs."

CHAPTER 06 - Innovation in renewable energy

p63
$10 billion CEFC - Clean Energy Finance Corporation
ARENA - Australian Renewable Energy Agency to adminsiter $3.2 billion for:
    r&d, demonstration and commercialisation of renewable energy

p64
QUOTE:
"The Renewable Energy Target means that 20 per cent of Australia’s electricity will come
from renewable sources by 2020. This, combined with other elements of the Government’s
plan, including the carbon price, will drive $20 billion of investment in large-scale renewable
energy by 2020 in today’s dollars."

CEFC
    $10 billion invest in the commercialisation and deployment
    of renewable energy, energy efficiency and low-pollution technologies.

p65
    50/50 split between renewable energy and clean energy
    * The clean energy stream will invest more broadly; for example, in low-emissions
      cogeneration technology, but will still be able to invest in renewable energy.
    - won't invest in CCS - carbon capture and storage
    independant corporation from govt
    loans that will be reinvested when repaid
    similar to UK's Green Investment Bank

ARENA
    independant statutory body
    take over management of existing grant based renewable energy programs
    administer $3.2 billion
Clean Technology Innovation Program
    $200 mill over 5yrs supporting business investment in r&d of clean techonologies.
    This will provide
    grants to support R&D, proof-of-concept and early-stage commercialisation in renewable
    energy, low-pollution technology and energy efficiency. These grants will be in addition to the
    broader R&D tax concession and will be provided on a co-contribution basis.

p67
RET - Renewable Energy Target, 2020 have 20% electricity by renewables
    * wind is fasting growing source
    * wind capacity increased from 100MW in 2001 to 2000MW


CHAPTER 07 - Supporting Energy Markets
p71
75% current electricy from coal
    approx twice pollution of natural gas
    gas 16%
    8% renewables
QUOTE:
"Reflecting the historical availability of low-cost coal in Australia, coal-fired generation
currently accounts for around 75 per cent of Australia’s electricity. However, burning coal
puts large amounts of carbon pollution into the atmosphere. For every unit of electricity
produced, conventional coal-fired generation releases around twice as much carbon pollution
as generating electricity by burning natural gas. Yet gas-fired generation currently only
accounts for around 16 per cent of Australia’s electricity. Generating electricity from
renewable resources like wind or solar power puts no carbon pollution into the atmosphere.
Renewable electricity currently accounts for around 8 per cent of Australia’s power supplies."

p72
QUOTE:
"Australia relies more heavily on coal-fired electricity generation than most other countries,
and this is reflected in the higher pollution intensity of our electricity supplies. The
International Energy Agency highlights that, in 2008, Australia’s electricity generators
released an average of 0.88 tonnes of carbon pollution for every megawatt hour of electricity
generated. This is significantly higher than countries like the United States (which released
0.54 tonnes for every megawatt hour of electricity generated), the United Kingdom (0.49),
New Zealand (0.21) and Canada (0.18). In fact, Australia had the highest polluting electricity
sector of all OECD countries. And among the 80 developing countries examined by the
International Energy Agency, only India, Cambodia and Cuba had more polluting electricity
sectors."

.88 tonnes per megawatt hour (2008) highest in OECD
        only India, Cambodia & Cuba worse
    .54 in US
    .21 NZ

p74
Energy Security Fund - $5.5bill
    2 main initiatives:
    * close 2000MW of high-polluting capacity by 2020
    * transitional assistance to highly emissions-intensive coal-fired power stations


p75
QUOTE:
"Assistance for strongly affected generators
The Government will also help generators that face sizeable asset value losses under a
carbon price. As a condition of receiving assistance, generators will need to meet system
security requirements. They will also need to provide clean energy investment plans, which
will be made public. These plans will need to identify their proposals to reduce pollution from
existing facilities and to invest in research and development and new capacity. Information
on possible projects identified under the Energy Efficiency Opportunities program will also be
included in these plans.
This transitional assistance measure will comprise a limited free allocation of Australian
carbon permits and cash allocated until 2016-17, estimated at $5.5 billion and amounting to
around 23 per cent of the coal-fired power stations’ expected liability over this time."


This transitional assistance measure will comprise a limited free allocation
of Australian carbon permits and cash allocated until 2016-17, estimated at
$5.5 billion and amounting to around 23 per cent of the coal-fired power
stations’ expected liability over this time.

p76
AEMO - existing entity
    Australian Energy Market Operator - plans the national grid
    asked to consider implications of moving to a 100% renewables


CHAPTER 08 - Improving Energy Efficiency
CHAPTER 09 - Creating Opportunities on the land

p91
agriculture excluded from carbon price
CFI - Carbon Farming Initiative
BF - Biodiversity Fund
    $946 million over 1st 6yrs
CFF - Carbon Farming Futures
    $429 million over 1st 6yrs

p93
CFI possible actions:
    * reforestation and revegetation
    * reduced methane emissions from livestock digestion
    * reduced fertiliser pollution
    * manure management
    * reduced pollution or increased carbon storage in agricultural soils (soil carbon)
    * savanna fire management
    * native forest protection
    * forest management
    * reduced pollution from burning of stubble and crop residue
    * reduced pollution from rice cultivation
    * reduced pollution from legacy landfill waste.

Credits generated under the Carbon Farming Initiative that are recognised for Australia’s
obligations under the Kyoto Protocol on climate change can be sold to companies with
liabilities under the Carbon Pricing Mechanism (see Chapter 3). This includes credits earned
from activities such as reforestation, savanna fire management and reductions in pollution
from livestock and fertiliser.

p94
Biodiversity Fund
    $946 million over 1st 6yrs

    
p95
CFF
    $201 million 1st 6yrs
    research store & reducing carbon in land sectors


APPENDIX A - Carbon pricing mechanism

p103
fixed price: 1 July 2012-15, 3yrs
    raising 2.5% above inflation
    2012-13 $23.00/tonne
    2013-14 $24.15/tonne
    2014-15 $25.40/tonne
    purchased permits can't be traded or banked for future use
    free permits: can sell back them to govt
ETS/cap&trade
    1 July 2015 start
    pollution cap amount for first 5 years announced in 2014 Budget
        2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20
    each following year, announce cap for 5 years in future.
        e.g. in 2015-16, announce 2020-21 cap, etc.

p104
price ceiling: set in May 2014 at $20 above expected internatonal 2015-16 price
    rises by 5% each year inflation
    * applies for 1st 3 yrs
price floor: 
    * applies for 1st 3 yrs
    starts at $15 rising 4% above inflation
unlimited banking of permits: e.g. can save this years permits for later use.

What's covered?
QUOTE:
"The carbon pricing mechanism will have broad coverage of emission sources from
commencement, encompassing: stationary energy; industrial processes; fugitive emissions (other
than from decommissioned coal mines); and emissions from non-legacy waste.
An equivalent carbon price will be applied through separate legislation to some business transport
emissions, non-transport use of liquid and gaseous fuels, and synthetic greenhouse gases."

p105
threshold for having to pay:
    a facility emitting 25,000 tonnes/yr of co2-eq
natural gas:
    natural gas retailers are responsible for their customers emissions.
transport:
    carbon price applied to other business transport emissions from liquid use
        (rail & shipping), applied by reducing business fuel tax credits.
    aviation fuel (domestic use): carbon price applied through increased fuel excise.

p106
one carbon permit equals one tonne carbon
must discharge permits by 1 Feb for the previous financial year.

p107
CFI
    in fixed price period: max of 5% of permits from CFI
    in flexible: no limit
    can be banked for future use
    can be exported internationally
International linking
    no international permits allowed in fixed-price period, or exporting of permits.
    flexible period:
        * can buy permits from overseas
        * until 2020, max of 50% permits can be from overseas 
            CCA to review this in 2016.
    
    domestic permits may be exported:
        * after price ceiling removed
        * govt has link to other countries ETS

    eligibility:
        * CERs - certified emissio reductions from Clean Development Mechanism under Kyoto
        * ERUs - emission reduction units from Joint Implementation projects under kyoto
        * RMUs - removal units under kytot on bases of land use change & forestry
        * other units govt allows

    The Climate Change Authority will advise on the integrity of international
        units, and recommend which units should be accepted and which should be
        prohibited.
    may link to other ETS's: EU or NZ in future

p110
    CCA details
    The Authority will be made up of nine experts with a particular focus on climate science,
    economics, climate change mitigation, emissions trading, investment and business.

p111
    Productivity Commission to conduct regular reviews of assistance arrangements.

p115 
JCP
    allocated permits based on previous years emission levels






APPENDIX B - Support for transition to a clean energy future
APPENDIX C - Fiscal Tables
APPENDIX D - Additional Government Measures




