3000 word final report
learning benchmark (post-placement)

comprehensive overview of organistation/structure/products/ervices
    where I fit in.

overview of work performed and experience gained
    in context of learning benchmark

attribute to improve on in mid-point
how see career post placement
recommendations for swinburne/employer


STRUCTURE
* TITLE PAGE
subject code
subject name
Final Report on Industry Based Learning of Alexei Hider
Employer - Citrus
Industry Supervisor - Andrew Fisher
Swinburne Supervisor - John McPhee
July 2010 - June 2011

* EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
150-200 words
* TOC
* INTRODUCTION
purpose/scope/nature of report
* TEXT
decimal numbering of subsections
* CONCLUSION
what's achieved, etc
* SIGNATURE
* APPENDICES
post-placment benchmark
others


OCRF - Ovarian Cancer Research Fund
Alfred Hospital's myHealthMate iPhone app
Sportsgirl
VRC/Melbourne Cup
Toys'r'us

GOAL: To be seen as equally competent as the rest of the dev team

Real World Expericence

Probably touched code base of almost every project worked on in past year

not must websites, but mobile dev too

programming and interface work

training and documentation

initiative - find solutions to problems you haven't been asked to solve

Impact on Cit
    Studio(dev and Interface) routinely seek me out for help and advice

    easy to work with, easy going, good humoured

    New technologies into business
        virtualenv
        oauth
        tractino
        celery (task scheduling)
        south (db migrations)

    Strong voice and contribut in meetings w/ inter/dev/studio teams

    keep on top of details, especially when working on many projects at once

Impact on Me
    Confidence
        to produce quality work
        excel in team environ
        pick up and learn new technologies

    contacts

    experience, more lines on resume

    tech know, gaps to fill

    be more assertive, and forthcoming w/ opinions and ideas on improvements
        to be made, and short comings of status quo

Recommendations for Swinburne
    better info in job listings
        tech used, what you'll be doing

    occassional check-in to see how things are travelling

Recommendations for Citrus
    more structure, training
    more feedback (missed sessions)
    bus factor
    better training, docs, info sharing and collaboartion between colleagues

Thanks
    Devo
    Andrew
    Josh & Luke
    Dev & Interface


MID MID MID MID
websites
thesource.com.au 
ocrf.com.au
backend
frontend
    different to normal workflow
    flexibility, adaptability to change, independent learning skills

workon
    communication and teamwork sills
    better feedback to management on time estimates, project progression
        incomplete requirements






ORGANISATIONS

2.1 - Citrus (Mentoring Organisation).
Citrus is a digital agency located in South Melbourne. It has been operating for over 10 years. It's core business is in assisting businesses negotiate the digital world, including but not limited to:
- building web-sites,
- creative design, strategy and concepts,
- e-commerce,
- mobile development,
- email campaigns,
- digital brand strategy, planning and development.
 Current clients of Citrus include:
 - VRC (Victorian Racing Club)
 - Sportsgirl
 - Toy 'r' Us
 - Adidas
 - Garnier
 - Alfred Hospital

2.2 - The Structure of Citrus.
Below senior management are two teams: Studio and Client Services. Each made up of teams with specific expertise.

2.2.1 - Studio
Studio is where products are designed and implemented. Studio is composed of three teams: Creative (responsible for design), Programming (responsible for programming and other underlying technologies), and Interface (responsible for the implementation of design's work in technologies like html/css/javascript).
My role within Citrus has straddled the Programming and Interface teams, although primarily the work has been with the Programming team. Chiefly my role has been creating and maintaining web-sites by doing back-end website programming. It also has included some interface work where I have written css/html/javascript for the front-end of websites. It has also included working on apps for smartphones like iPhones and Android phones.
Andrew Fisher (General Manager of Technology) is responsible for both the Programming and Interface teams. Stephen McDonald is the team's lead. I have worked under the guidance of these two individuals.

2.2.2 - Client Services.
Client Services consists of two teams: Project Management and Account Management.
Account Management is responsible for maintaining relationships between Citrus and it's clients. My role doesn't include much
interaction with these team, as Studio have almost no direct contact with clients.
Project Management is responsible for the planning and implementation of projects. My role includes working with Project Managers as they are responsible for individual jobs that most be completed by the Studio team.

2.3 My Role Within Citrus.
As Citrus is an agency, my role has had me working on numerous projects (some weeks I perform work for a different client each day). Instead of listing each project I have worked on, I will list some key projects, and how they relate to my experience and development.
